					
Constitution for the
UNO Open Works Collective
				

ARTICLE I
Name
The name of this organization shall be the: 
Open Works Collective;
Abbreviated: OWC
ARTICLE II

Purpose				
The purpose of this organization is to garden a productive open ecosystem for communities associated with the University of New Orleans to foster interdisciplinary creativity through the intersection of inclusivity, transparency, and collaboration.
				
Contributors	

Section 1:
Membership shall be open to all students enrolled in the university.
Section 2:
Active members shall be enrolled students and elected officers. Active members shall have the rights of voice, vote, and office holding.
Section 3:
Associate members shall be faculty and previous organization members.


ARTICLE III

Members
Section 1:
Only active members shall be eligible for office within the organization.
Section 2:
The terms of office for all elected officials shall be two (2) consecutive semesters beginning in the fall.
Section 3:
The title of the elected officials shall be: Executive Officer, Operations Officer, Financial Officer,  Information Officer
Section 4:
The duties of the elected officials shall be: (Add any additional duties as desired)

a:
Executive Officer:
    1. Shall set date for the next meeting when the normal schedule conflicts within the school schedule.
    2. Shall appoint members to chair committees, such as publicity, field trips, guest speaker coordinator, etc.
    3. Shall cast the deciding vote if there is a tie in normal voting procedure.
    4. Shall submit all official roster forms to the Director of Student Involvement & Leadership.
b:
Operations officer:
    1. Shall act as advisor to all committees.
    2. Shall have the right to vote except when acting as president.
    3. Shall keep accurate minutes of all meetings and shall keep all necessary records and maintain them.
    4. Shall be responsible for presenting a copy of the minutes to all members of the Faculty/Staff Advisor.
    5. Shall handle all organization correspondence.
    6. Shall keep a list of all active members.

c:
Financial Officer:
    1. Shall have the right to vote except when acting as Chair.
    2. Shall be in charge of all organization finances.
    3. Shall keep an accurate account of all finances and shall give a report at every meeting.
    4. Shall be responsible for submitting semester financial reports to the organization.
d. Information Officer:
    1. Responsible for minutes of officer meetings
    2. Maintains schedule of events.
    3. Maintains critical information the club need.


Section 5:
Election of Officers
    1. Only active members shall be nominated for office.
    2. To be eligible to seek or hold office, a student must be enrolled for 3 semester hours or more (or be certified as a full-time student if a graduate student), or if a first semester freshman, elected to an office in a student organization, attain a 2.0 or better average at UNO in order to continue to hold office.
    3. To be elected, it is necessary for a member to be nominated, and thereupon receive majority approval to those members present and voting.
    4. The dates of election shall be set by the current slate of officers. 
    5. If the number of candidates exceeds the number of officer positions than all voting will be conducted by public vote.
    6. Two officer positions open per semester.
		
ARTICLE IV
Advisors

Section 1:
There shall be a member of the UNO faculty or staff that shall serve in an advisory capacity to the organization.
Section 2:
A member from the community may serve as advisor.

ARTICLE V
Quorum, Meetings, and Voting

Section 1:
A quorum shall consist of 2 officers and 66% of the active members. 
Section 2:
Meetings will be held weekly.
Section 3:
Emergency meetings will be called when deemed necessary, by a majority of the officers.
Section 4:
A simple majority of those present and voting is required to pass a proposal. This should be ⅘ of the members present.
Section 5:
All meetings shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order.

ARTICLE VI
Financial Structure

Section 1:
All active members are personally responsible for registering a paid membership with the ACM. All officers must have paid memberships with the ACM.   

ARTICLE VII
Impeachment

Section 1:
An officer may be removed from his or her position due to negligence of duty, inefficiency in office, or any other action which is considered detrimental to the name or purpose of the organization. An officer may be removed from office by a two-thirds vote of the active membership, present and voting, at a meeting of the organization.

ARTICLE VIII
Amendments

Section 1:
Amendments must be distributed in writing to the membership at least one week prior to vote.


			
			 			 		
    						27 October 2021 
             										  	       DATE


    • Membership
        ◦ contributor
            ▪ member
                • maintainer
                • Officer	
